Input elements are not the only thing that we can display within the form.
So let's look at the other popular ones.
Now with your permission I'm just gonna continue working with the same file again if you'd like to access
the resources of the previous video.
You can just download resources for the previous video but after the email input we're just gonna look
at the few other more popular ones.
Now the first one is gonna be text area where we can have some longer description and you can already
see that right away as we start typing with them and this gives us few attributes that we haven't seen
before.
Now first one would be columns and the second one is gonna be there.
So let's say we would like to have some kind of description.
Check this out.
So again this is not gonna be styled very nicely right now because we have everything all over the place.
But let's say that if you would like to have some kind of line break in between them.
Again just for styling for now we all gonna have our description let's say here and maybe we can just
add the paragraph of the description and we can accurately write our description within our text editor
and columns would mean how many columns of I'm going to say 40 I'm going to have 40 columns if I'm going
to say 20 I'm going to have 20 columns and the same thing would go for.
Now also we have the radio buttons and for the radio buttons.
What's unique is that you can have only one value meaning you can submit one value.
That's the whole point of the radio but now you don't have to specifically do it that way but that would
make sense since are obviously we're designed for that.
And again let me add another line break just so it's gonna be displayed there.
And let's say that we're gonna have a paragraph which ask Louise please like select your favorite coding
language so hopefully this is written correctly.
Once we have our paragraph read and for us what is your most favorite coding language.
Also maybe add a question mark gonna make a little bit more sense and then we are going to be working
with the input type of radio so we can use the semicolon or we can just create a basic one and change
it.
So I'm gonna use the right away I'm at and here I'm gonna have the name and I.D. Now I'm not going to
need any of them for now meaning I will gonna use later on name but for now I'm not going to use it.
Let's just write that this is gonna be javascript.
So once I'm gonna save it notice I'm gonna have my radio button and there's gonna be some kind of value.
Now the thing is with the radio buttons the names should match because the whole idea behind radio button
is the fact is that you would just choose one of them later on you will gonna have select boxes where
we can pick multiple but if you would like to use the radio button the name of the input should match.
Now how this is going to look first of all let me copy and paste this.
So let's say there's gonna be three of them and let's write the second one is gonna be Java language
and the third one we're gonna have as Python python.
Now the moment I'm gonna save this I'm gonna have an option of choosing one over here because again
the idea was would be that if I am selecting something.
Now you also would want as you're submitting it as some kind of value because you not only would want
to click on the radio button you would like to collect the value.
So in our case we're gonna hard code that this is gonna be javascript.
Now as the value has to match to whatever you would like to submit if you would like to submit some
kind of John Doe obviously you would need to write it in the value John Doe.
So in our case for Java we're gonna write all your Java.
This is gonna be my value as well as for the python.
I'm going to copy and paste it and here we're gonna write Python.
I hope you understand the whole purpose of this.
Since you would want to submit this kind of data whether this is gonna be a javascript language or Java
language and radio button is gonna allow you to choose which one you're submitting.
However the value is gonna be the one that's passed on whenever we're adding this information to the
data.
This is just showing what the user is picking.
So again in our case we're not using the actual value for now but is obviously important to use it later
on as you actually submitting the data.
Now if you mess up here with this name remember the name attribute all of them need to match.
Because if I'm gonna do like this if I'm going to say that let's say the second one is gonna be not
coding it's gonna be called in and if we're gonna save it.
Now the trick here is that I can pick javascript and I can pick Java and this is not something we would
want with radio button because the whole idea is to use checkboxes for that.
Okay.
So your next question probably is.
Well what is checkbox is then how do we start using it.
Well again we're gonna do the same old deal where we have first of all probably some kind of Lindberg
in between.
So we can see a little bit better and let's say again before we submit and right after the radio button
that's and the airline break and we'll gonna have to again have the input.
Now in this case this is gonna be checkbox.
So again we're not looking for radio or this is gonna be the checkbox.
And you know what right away also let's add the paragraph and let's write out the same old deal that
we had before.
So with your permission I'm just gonna copy paste this just so we save a little bit of time as well
as you notice we have the type of checkbox and now again we have the same old deal where we have the
name as well as the value.
So what do you think what a value what we would like to write.
I think we can do the same thing right.
So we have the value first of all is gonna be javascript that's gonna be the first thing that's gonna
be passed on as well as we would need to write the actual javascript here.
So I'm going to say you know what.
Okay.
So this is gonna be javascript.
Now the difference with actual checkboxes here is that we can pick multiple.
So let's say we're gonna change first of all the name to programming.
Again this is gonna be our name programming and let me make sure that I read this correctly.
And now it's copy and paste this.
Let's say one two three.
And you know what I did.
One too many.
So let's first of all change whatever value we have because I was so we don't want to JavaScript or
3 JavaScript in our case we would want only to meeting.
Sorry we would want only one.
And let's change the second one to Java.
Is also gonna be value of Java.
Value of Python.
And again I know I'm repeating this but the values we're gonna use only when we're submitting data.
Now you could write whatever you would like order and let's write Python on right over here and what
we have here is the checkbox is all with checkbox checkboxes we can click multiple so we can choose
let's say that our favorite languages are gonna be all three of them.
So that would be the biggest difference between checkboxes and the radio buttons.
The simple fact that with trademarks is we can click multiple look and choose multiple but we have the
radio buttons.
The whole idea is that you're just choosing one.
OK.
So we also have an option of select so select would be something like a drop down menu or something
like that.
So again same old deal right after the python let's create maybe in this case again a paragraph and
the paragraph is gonna same old deal.
We're gonna ask the same old question because again I don't see the point of being really creative during
the editorial right now because the most important thing is to understand the general concept and for
the select box.
This would be different where again we create an element and the element is gonna be select.
And here we need to write let's say what kind of name it would be.
Now we're going to write again languages which is how we can just leave the idea for now empty.
You know what.
One last thing that I wanted to show you with checkboxes we also have an option of check.
So if we have checked already the checkbox let's say by default we can add an attribute.
So for this I'm gonna add our back to let's say my first one and we have the attribute of checked and
we can just leave it like this or we can set it equal to check.
It's gonna work exactly the same way.
So I notice.
Now once they have the check for JavaScript the javascript is gonna be automatically checked.
Now I can still on track it but by default is gonna be checked since we added this attribute and we
can add this attribute to all of them if you want and sometimes you're gonna see the long way written
not the HD email where we're gonna be looking for check is going to be to check again this would mean
exactly the same thing as just having a check like this.
So let's get rid of this and now let's finish off we can select now within the select we have options.
Those would be something similar like you have with all the Nord list Remora you had the list items.
So the same deal would work with select where within the select there is an option element now within
the option element.
Again we're working with the values.
So we're saying okay what is the value here.
Again we're gonna start with a javascript javascript which again will be submitted.
I know I've said this many times but I just think that it's important to kind of get this point across
where the value is gonna be shown.
So the text is gonna be shown within the amount but the value is gonna be something that's going to
be submitted.
Now again we have few other options.
So let me you know what.
Maybe let me make this a little bit smaller on the right hand side.
So then we can see better and if we copy and paste this multiple times and again we're gonna do the
same deal where we have Java where we have also Python python and we also would like to change these
values.
So let's say Java.
And last one but not least we have the python.
So this would be a drop down menu now and you know what.
Maybe not.
And a little bit more might break and sure enough now this is there's gonna be a lot more space.
So if we want to collect something let's say again we can choose Java.
And this is gonna work.
So let's say if we wanna test it all.
But let me just write some mumbo jumbo gibberish here and add something to the email this is gonna work.
This is gonna be inscription Jar Jar Jar our Java and something let's say from the select is gonna be
select as a job.
And again we can just submit now in the URL we're gonna see our key value pairs if we're going to copy
paste it or whatever if we're gonna name this bigger notice.
Now these are gonna be the value pairs key value pairs there are going to be some.
Again in our case we don't care about them we only will gonna care about them has we start working with
some back in language but this would be the general principles of working with the forms and the HMO.